compile:


halcompile --compile colorcnc.c

sudo halcompile --install colorcnc.c

The current version ( April 4, 2022) seems to be stable when 

- using a direct connection between the host and the colorlight card,
- setting a static ARP entry on the host before starting linuxcnc, ( not sure if still neccessary)
- turn off avahi-daemon 
- don't do anything else on your host while using linuxcnc, esp on a raspi pi4

The reason is, that the current Litex core for the colorlight card does get unresponsive when two packets (of any kind) are received within a short time. ( a few microseconds)

setting a static ARP:
sudo arp -s 192.168.1.50 -i eth0 10:e2:d5:00:00:00

turning of avahi-daemon ( at least on the RPI4)
sudo systemctl stop avahi-daemon.socket avahi-daemon.service
sudo systemctl disable avahi-daemon.socket avahi-daemon.service
sudo systemctl mask avahi-daemon.socket avahi-daemon.service
reboot
check with "ps -ef | fgrep avahi" that the daemon is really dead.

*** PLEASE BE AWARE ***
This version of the colorcnc driver does check that all packets are really sent before sending the next one with at least 10us delay between them.
The driver is called once per millisecond from linuxcnc and needs 170 microsecond (us) on average on a raspberry PI4. 
Nearly all packets are send within 400 usec. There are long periods where 400 usec is the max.
BUT there are cases that the transmission will be delayed for up to 2-5 or even 10 milliseconds and there may be even longer delays. 
This seems to be related to computer activity even on the realtime kernel esp. on the raspberry with its slow SD card. 
Starting linuxcnc does also cause such delays during the first seconds.
Connecting to the host via vncviewer via wlan definitely causes such delays.
Connect a display to the video port to see realistic delays. The statistic output is enabled by default.
DO NOT USE on any machine that cannot tollerate delays close to 100 milliseconds or that will be damaged when the watchdog ( currently 100 ms) stops the stepgen!
USE AT YOUR OWN RISK in any case!

The current config assumes 6 stepper outputs ( J1, J2) and 12 outputs ( J3, J4).
The current config assumes 24 inputs (J5 to J8). You need to replace the chips U9, U12, U15 with wires or CBT3245A chips to get the inputs).
Testet with a colorlight 5a-75b V8.0 only.

BTW: The colorlight card does signal the watchdog (100 ms) state with the green led on the card. 
It will reenable when the messages continue.
The button acts as reset.


